{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6667\c6667\c6667;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This is a replication package for:\
\'93Are there lane advantages in track and field?\'94 by David Munro\
\
The following disclaimers hold:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The data provided is for general informational purposes only. All information is provided in good faith, however I make no representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, adequacy, validity, reliability, availability or completeness of any information herein.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The data for this analysis was collected from:\
https://worldathletics.org/competitions/\
\
If you use this data or replication package in an academic capacity please cite the following working paper:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Munro, David. "Are there lane advantages in track and field?."\'a0Available at SSRN 3801883\'a0(2021).\
Or, hopefully, the published version of the paper..\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\ul Notes about the data:\ulnone \
It includes data from the World Championships and U20 World Championships from 2000-2019 and the following important points are worth highlighting:\
\
1) In recent years, the 100m event can have a \'93Preliminary Round\'94 prior to Round 1. It appears in the data that the winners of the preliminary round are sorted into the outside lanes of the Round 1 heats. As such, the Round 1 lane assignments are non-random. Because of this, when there exists a Preliminary Round, I use only this data and not the Round 1 data.\
\
2) Certain events are occasionally missing startlist data, which is required to know a runners\'92 lane assignment. These include: \
-2011 World Championship Womens 400m \
-2003 World Championship Mens 100m\
-2010 U20 Womens 800m\
-2008 U20 Womens 800m\
Since the analysis in the paper depends on knowing lane assignments, these events are excluded from the data.\
\
3) In rare cases, in the 800m, two runners are assigned to lane 8. These runners are excluded from the data.\
\
4) Data on personal bests and seasonal bests are central in the analysis, and runners are occasionally missing this data. Runners with this missing data are excluded from the data.\
}